we have a special situation in Germany as you know with the unification so that we have one organization include two different libraries and one in Leipzig you will see tomorrow and we will see others again for I'm in Leipzig I go to Leipzig today so we can see that again so
And the Deutsche Vertik in Frankfurt.
And maybe you know that the tradition in Germany is a federal tradition.
So that all the lenders of Germany got their own state libraries, like the Prussian State Library in Berlin, like the Bavarian State Library in Munich.
And the publishers started to discuss the question, is it not necessary to have a central library in Germany to possess all the German language titles?
And this happened in 1912.
So this was the foundation of the Deutsche Bucherei with an initiative by the publishers.
And the government came much later.
It's amazing.
It's really amazing, and therefore we have a very close link to the publisher's world.
And then the Second World War came, and it was a divided country.
So the publishers thought, we have had a good idea in Leipzig, and now we are not able to offer all the information potential of German literature
for all the people, for we have the communist ideology.
So they said, we want to have in the western zone, in the American, British and French zone, a new library with a similar approach.
And they founded the Deutsche Bibliothek in 1946 in Frankfurt.
And again, this is very interesting, again at a place where not the capital was, but where the publishers are.
The books are.
That's amazing.
So we belong very close to the publishers.
As a depository, is that what you're saying?
As a depository?
Yes, it's a depository.
A legal depository.
First of all, it was volunteer.
The publishers decided to do it.
But afterwards, it's a law.
It's a law in the meantime.
So the same thing with the Library of Congress or the British Library, or the French Library, where they are required to deposit.
But it's more than just a deposit library.
We also collect all the German language titles abroad.
We all collect the translated titles from the German to other languages.
and all the literature above Germany.
So you have a view to the, let's say, book culture of the German language.
That's the idea.
Not to a nation, but to a language.
That's very, very interesting.
And this is what I think quite a modern view to things, for it links the different developments...
You know, in one library.
So, we're talking, how about special collections and rare items and cannabula and things like that?
We don't have it here.
This is what I told you before.
The cannabula and the rara are in the old state libraries.
They were founded in the 16th and the 17th century.
We are a library of the 20th century.
So you have to add the historical dimension by institutions.
It's not in one institution.
It's, let's say, in a modern way, we would say it's a virtual library.
It's a decentralized national library.
Together with the state library in Berlin and the Munich Library and the Deutsche Bibliothek.
These are together...
And they serve different target groups, and they serve in a way that they can preserve their connections to future generations, but one with the historical dimension, we for the current literature.
So what is your specific... This is fascinating to me.
I didn't know this.
No, it didn't.
In France, of course, there's this whole concept of patrimony and the French patrimony.
Yes, that's right.
And then the British Library actually tries to collect the world.
They try to collect the whole world.
The Library of Congress, 120 countries, they're collecting.
You are collecting the German language, it seems to me.
That's right.
And that is fascinating.
And everything.
It's really comprehensive.
We made an analysis about the centuries before, the 17th century, the 18th century, and the 19th century, and we found that more than a third of literature production is missed in German libraries, for they didn't have a comprehensive collection.
We have a comprehensive collection of all the titles from 1912 on.
And I think you just said 20th century.
Yes, that's right.
So prior to 20th century, the responsibility goes to those other state libraries.
And the unification then, 1990, was the time we have to think about the two places now, Leipzig and Frankfurt.
What is their...
specific task in the future.
Shall we close one of the places or can we continue them or what's the idea?
So what did you come up with?
I think we have quite a good idea now.
You said it's necessary.
What is the task of book culture in the future?
What is the role of digital publications in comparison with printed?
Book culture is part of my title, by the way.
The whole concept of book culture.
We did a decision in a way which will be much clearer out of the future.
We said if you are a library which
will fulfill the preservation of texts without telling now print or not print, preserving the text for the future.
We said the Frankfurt Library should have all the information infrastructure to enable us to preserve even the very fragment and difficult information
publications on the internet or on CD-ROM or on diskette in the same way like the books.
So we develop at the moment solutions for a permanent preservation of digital publications.
This I hope I will see today.
It's very, very, very important for me.
And this is what we really want to do.
For everybody it's
telling you the shining, wonderful world of globalization and you will get everything in a few seconds.
That's right.
But nobody is thinking about all the problems following.
Well, how about migration?
If you have things preserved in
digital language, zeros and ones, how can you be certain that that will be preserved forever?
I'm not sure if we are really certain, but we have the following ideas.
We know that it's not only necessary to convert a digital text from one media to the other.
The whole context, that means the
programs with the software and the hardware also should be transferred to a future.
And we have now two ideas of migration.
The one is if there is an upgrading situation so that you really can follow to develop one state through the other,
this would be okay, we could migrate it.
But the other idea is to store also the information about the software, the database software and the hardware in a kind of a program so that you can set back the future to a point
where it was working in the past.
Do you know what I mean?
It's a bit difficult to explain.
I understand the process.
You have not to store the machine.
You can store the... The data.
Yes.
The structure.
The knowledge about it.
So that you can... You can symbolize the situation like it was before.
And this is what we are working on.
And we have a European project.
A European what?
a project in this, a European.
We don't think that we, as the Deutsche Botee, can solve this very complicated problem by our own.
So we decided to start a project, it's called Netlib.
How do we spell it?
Netlib, N-E-D-L-I-B.
B as in boys?
It's an acronym, and I have to think about what it means.
It's the National European Digital Library.
Does it have a website yet?
Yes, it is.
N-E-D-L-I-V, probably, right?
Yes.
And we have about five European National Libraries on it.
We, the Dutch National Library, the Finnish, the Norwegian, the Portuguese, I think these are three software houses and two publishers.
And we work together.
to find out the solution for permanent deposit on digital libraries.
And it's financed by the European Commission.
Now, this library just opened, right, basically.
This building.
Was this built with the future, with the 21st century in mind?
Yes, it was built for this, yes.
So with the thought that even though the book was invented, the printed book, very close to here,
You're also at the forefront, it seems to me, in these computerized... Yes, but what we do not want to do is to make a digitalization on our book material.
You see, we have... We don't want, as a total view,
to transfer our printed books to a digital world.
For we say we are a library with a deposit which means that we have to keep the books in the original form.
If it is book culture, it will be book culture also in the future.
But if it is digital, it will be digital culture also in the future.
That's exactly right.
What Kurt Novak says now, this is exactly the model.
We want to have
all the facilities for preserving the book culture in Leipzig.
So we have a big department called Center for Preservation and Conservation.
And that's in Leipzig.
In Leipzig, you will see it with all the facilities.
And they can do mass deacetification, they can do paper strengthening, they can do microfilming and in the future
So that all those things which belong to the book itself, or the book museum is also there, a big, wonderful book museum.
You will see it, you will like it.
So these things are the subject field of application within Leipzig for the book culture.
All those things which belong to the digital world is made in Frankfurt.
But the benefit is for both places.
And therefore, it's the two sides of one metal.
How does the whole process of unification, reunification, work into this in terms of... Political considerations don't enter this at all.
We save everything in the German language, right?
Yeah.
Basically.
Whether or not it was material that was produced in the communist state or anything like that is irrelevant, right?
I'm thinking in terms of the...
We have a full range of publications of all these, all of the former communist states.
And that's all kept?
Yes, it's all kept.
It's all kept.
So it's a real source of research in a very specific way.
We have all these little dedications you will never get in a normal library.
from the parties and the mass organizations of the Communist Party and so on.
Which is very important.
As a scholarly institution, I think you very sagaciously have decided we will collect the language.
And therefore, you don't make any political considerations.
And therefore, this is a wonderful scope.
You are quite sure that you will find it.
And it's on the database.
And you know, if it is German language, you will find it here.
And the other thing is you have no competition to the state libraries.
It's really fit in.
So that together with the state libraries, we have a clear position to serve those who want to have the whole scope arranged.
They can use the state library and us.
And if they only want to work in a German language, they can just keep the rings here.
And as for foreign literature, there are disciplines.
There's a network with the university libraries too.
For example, medicine is collected worldwide in Colonia, technique in Hannover, history in Munich.
So you will get each book, but it's a decentralized system.
You don't get it.
French books and English books here.
So it is just a network.
Like elephants, not a dinosaur.
How many volumes do you have here?
Seven million.
Describe the nature again of the books, the seven million books here.
These are all 20th century books.
Roughly, yes.
Only after 1945.
1945.
So in Leipzig they have another nine millions because they started earlier.
And for German books there is a publication because the publishers give two copies.
One copy in Leipzig, one copy in Leipzig.
Well, it is process just once.
so that there's no additional effort for the two copies.
So it's one database for everybody?
Yeah.
It's one database and it's processed once so that the second copy is processed so that you can bring it to the stack at once.
And if the book is published in Western part, normally it's just here, and if it's published in Berlin or in the Eastern part, they do it at live scene and put it together in the same moment.
In one database.
So what do you have to do in Leipzig, when you go to Leipzig?
So I have it arranged in such a way that I say, let's go for three days or four weeks.
So it depends on the situation, if there's something important to decide.
And this week, I will go for three days.
And next week, I have to be in Frankfurt World's book fair.
I'm not going to stay for the book fair.
No?
I was hoping to, but I'm going up to Sweden and to Amsterdam.
I can come back next year.
This is more important, actually.
This concept was developed as a national policy?
Yes.
What was the problem that was faced?
Was this just something that was understood, that you were going to keep everything in its original form?
I mean, you could very easily have decided it would be a lot easier to...
to try and put things into digital form.
A lot of people might.
Yeah, but this is a national policy which we trust, we believe in the book.
So we say we want to keep it in a way that the original form is really at the library.
But we are the only institution, I have to say, which is really federal government.
All the others belong still to the lenders, for the lenders have the responsibility for culture in Germany.
I'm sorry, explain that to you.
The Deutsche Weltkrieg belongs to the federal government.
But the state library in Bavaria or the state library in Wirtland, they belong to Bavaria or they belong to Wirtlandberg.
This is a different financing situation, a different authority.
It's very, very interesting that I didn't realize that this comes as a... We have not the power to force any library to buy our services, but to do it, so we are trying to sell central services to avoid that each book is catalogued 20 or 50 times in Germany, so it is only catalogued once, and then we sell it,
We have bibliography, records and other libraries.
But we are forced to look to our clients what we really want.
So we can't say you are obliged to do it.
But they do it, and so there's nearly no library now, which is cataloging the input itself.
They try to get as far as possible the records of the German ones and the English ones.
It's similar to the OCRC.
We are a big service center.
Oh, so really?
Who comes here to read?
What kind of people come here?
60% are university people, students, and professors.
and 40% are companies, banks, lawyers, teachers, this is the relation of users.
You're in my office?
Oh, excellent.
So we go on.
If you agree, I would... Excellent.
We will see you tomorrow.
And you took the train up too, by the way?
Yes.
It's wonderful.
It's very comfortable.
And it's all from the central station down here, right?
Yes.
And I think you'll also be interested in the building itself.
It's a very wonderful little camera here.
We are here since May.
The Chancellor opened the building in May 1997.
And he gave a wonderful speech.
He is a friend of the book, and so it was quite easy to ask him to open.
It's important to have the political support.
That's right.
I mean, there was actually a proposal in Washington that they was defeated, thank goodness.
It wasn't even considered, but that you charge people to use the Library of Congress.
Can you imagine that?
This didn't go anywhere.
One quick question on deaccession.
What's your policy on deaccessioning books?
Deaccessioning, getting rid of books, removing books from your...
From your inventory?
See, this word... Outcutting?
Yes.
There is no de-acceptioning of books.
See, that's an issue in the United States and elsewhere.
No books are ever... Everything forever.
Everything forever.
Can I say that?
You can.
This is a memory.
This is the only systematic memory people have.
So we believe in this, what is it, citation, our motto.
That's excellent.
You have work to do.
Okay.
Thank you, and we will see us tomorrow morning.
Good, and I'll be in touch.
Library of Commons, Cooper from the British Library, and Mr. Lewis, Maurice Lyon, Christoph from Luxembourg, Reis, Willemsen from Denmark, Juchas Ungari, Karthaschow from USNR.
And so each of them had some ideas, but I must confess, the only which is missing, and the second part is on Deutsche Bibliothek.
The head of our divisions.
Is that here?
Ah, here in English.
Oh, here, yes.
So, the head of computer division and the head of... So, the first part is abroad.
I see.
And the second part is... And everything is in English.
Oh, it's in English.
So, where can I get this?
It is obviously published by the German Publishers Union.
Okay.
The famous publisher.
Can I buy it here while I'm here?
Do you think?
Yes, you could buy it, but it's heavy.
Perhaps it is easier to buy it in.
I will just Xerox you on the title page.
But you see, it was published in 1988.
Of course, now we have ten years after.
And in this year, when it was published, of course, Mr. Retsch from TBR was asked, and nobody in this year, 1988,
thought that there would be a... I have to get this book.
There would be a crash of Ude Sussar, Katoschoff, the great Agnes of the Yule, Paul.
And so, ten years after, even internet was, in these days, was not so strong.
So, you see, even within ten years... Amazing.
Even when Peter Lehmann becomes the new director here in 88,
In the same year, he drew for speech.
He didn't mention that he would take Leipzig.
And so, you see, it was a hundred stories.
And maybe I will have it, because I know you have interest in this story.
This is precisely what I'm writing.
And I have some updates.
And maybe in 20 years, if you will read your book, which was published next year, you will see.
Surprising.
But I don't make predictions.
I try to report what other people say.
I was just the editor of this book.
You were the editor.
I was the editor, yeah.
Well, tell me about this now.
The editor gentleman is retiring.
You have to give a gift to him.
So I asked his colleagues, please do the job, and I collect them.
The only one who is missing, you will see, is a French, because the director general of the French library in this day sent me.
If I would tell you the truth, they would hire me at once.
And because I don't wish to lie, so I don't write anything.
He sent everything.
And he was hired afterwards.
Did he have any ideas?
He wished to put a small article on a French library in the 15th century.
And he said, sorry, I can't take this.
The title is National Libraries in the year 2000.
Yes.
And it was published in 88.
So in 88, 2000 was fine.
Now it is.
Hello.
What was your position then?
In these days, my position was the same as now.
I'm here as a deputy since 1972.
So 27 years.
27 years.
A quarter of a century.
I started here as a young man in 66, and six years after I became a deputy, so I was rather young.
And so...
I studied history, medieval history, and this was medieval manuscripts.
And poor Kurt Novak, the only library in total Germany, there is no manuscript at all, and this Hagen-Grant is on here.
Oh, that's wonderful.
Wonderful, yeah.
So you're trained as a historian, not a librarian.
Yeah, so in Germany... But not a librarian.
In Germany, education is if you wish to get
in a library at a top position, head of division or more, you have to study at university.
And whether you study law or history or medicine, anyhow you must have a degree at the university and then you were trained for two years in the library and then you are a librarian for the top positions.
In this library we have 330 staff, 330, only 30, just 10%, are academic librarians, like me.
And then there is a huge mass of librarians, catalogers, and judges.
They have no university degree, they were trained within the library for three years,
And the last level is secretaries and such things.
So we have three levels.
Like in India, the castes.
Lowest level is secretary, typist, hand-touchings.
Then these are the librarians, which are non-academic librarians, which are trained three years in the library.
The majority are working in the cataloging division and then you have the academic library and there are only 10% academic librarians.
Mr. Lehmann studied physics and I studied humanities so it is perhaps not bad to have both in the library.
The majority of our academic libraries are in the subject heading division because you need, of course, for each discipline you need one expert and so we have quite a lot of academic librarians, more than half of them are in the subject heading division and the rest are heads of divisions.
the mass of slaves.
Now when you edited this book, and when it was published ten years, nine years ago... I edited two books.
This was the second one.
The first one was on our new library.
So when we made the competition, there were 150 different architects in the competition to document which ideas it did.
Can I tell you what this book is?
The title is The New... D-I-E.
If you agree, I will hear of this title.
Thank you.
Okay.
Would you like to say, I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that I'm going to say that
So you said you did the two books, the other one, but my question was going to be, so this study that you did, the National Library in the year 2000, do you think that it was prophetic or do you think it was wrong?
Some of them were very clear and not wrong.
Some of them, like the DDR, because the world is no longer a DDR, it was wrong.
Some of them, or perhaps even the majority, so that the book will keep its important rule
But nevertheless, in addition, some electronic publications and so forth, the library should pay attention to see that 90% or more are still books and printed materials, dead three editions.
There is a small new group of CD-ROMs and tapes
and internet publications, and that a library which wishes not to become a museum should pay attention to get some contact in this field too, otherwise there's a certain danger that the library will become like a good old Bible, everybody loves it, nobody reads it, and therefore you should have both.
We have the opinion, and the majority of the authors too,
that the book will keep is important, because it is rather cheap, nevertheless.
Electricity, you don't have electricity in each country.
Even our computer system, this very morning, is broken down, total blackout.
If you have a book, you could hack and read.
And therefore, I think we should see that for special purposes,
If you wish to have a research in a bibliography, it is rather easy to have a research in an online system.
You get more.
But if you wish to read a novel or anything else, I personally prefer to read the novel in a printed version and not on the screen.
And so I think you need both.
I don't know of anybody who's ever read a whole book on a computer.
Like you have a plane and a car.
You need both.
You can't say, because we have planes, everybody will use a plane, nobody will use a car or a bicycle.
I think you need both.
Our philosophy is, why not both?
Not either-or, but et-et.
Thank you, thank you, yes.
Now, I would contact this publisher directly?
Yes, you may either contact the publisher directly or go to your bookseller in your Chicago or Massachusetts, please order it.
It's one of the famous ones, and there's no problem.
And it's still in print?
It is still in print, it's still in print.
Good.
If you should get any trouble, please contact me.
I need it!
It's very important because
I'm very interested not only in how things are coming, but how people think they're coming.
What people are predicting.
Of course, some of those authors are still acting, some are retired within the last 10 years.
That's fine.
But they represent contemporary thought.
Yes, you're right.
It's what the thinking is at a certain time.
So are you surprised by things, how things are turning out yourself?
Does it surprise you?
Klaus Lehmann mentioned that we were founded twice by the publisher, 1912 in Leipzig and 1946 in Frankfurt.
So both times the publisher were our fathers and therefore
our governing board is not the Chancellor Kohl or Minister of Internal Affairs it is a governing board with 12 seats and the majority sorry with 11 and the majority there are 5 publishers and only 4 from the ministers so the publishers have the majority in the governing board and those publishers they say we tried
to keep the public alive.
To keep it alive?
The Deutsche will take it alive.
The money, we get the money from the government here up to one o'clock.
And you will be in my office up to eleven o'clock and then you will have Mr. Stephan and the guided tour to see something of this library.
Of course, in one half a day you can't get everything.
It's impossible.
I remember when I was the first time in the States in 72, we had six weeks.
I kept each day in one library.
Nevertheless, of course, you got a good impression, but at the end of the story, you had some additional questions, and then you have to contact the team.
But obviously, I'm really here to get a sense of your philosophy.
Yes, yes, yes.
And so the last thing in our philosophy is...
As for books and for modern material, we say, we will have both.
We have books.
The majority, more than 90%, and maybe 10% important ones are electronic publications, and we should care if possible.
And of course, now we collect CD-ROMs, the publishers.
Give it to us, no problem.
But as for the internet publications,
We have not yet started, it's just planning and the publishers agreed if they would offer internet, they will give up those things and we are free to use them within the reading room, but we are not free to give them outside without charge.
So if we give them outside, the publishers
I will ask for license.
As for the .
There's printed books, there is no problem.
We get two copies.
One copy is going to Leipzig.
One copy is going to Frankfurt.
And the third copy, each publisher is obliged in Germany to give three copies.
One to its region, so a Bavarian publisher, send one copy to Munich.
And this copy, which is going to Munich, is used for interlending purposes.
whereas the Frankfurt and the Leipzig copy are still as last resource only to be used in the reading rooms.
So if anything should happen to this Bavarian copy, you still have two copies, one in Frankfurt, one in... And if the crash would play in here, you have another one in Leipzig.
And so... So you have duplication.
Oh, you have duplication.
But the duplication is only for the books which are published in Germany.
If a German book is published in, say, the United Kingdom of France, we just buy one copy.
We don't get it free, and we buy only one.
And this is Leipzig.
So Leipzig has an additional charge.
There are two charges.
One is preservation and conservation, and one is to get foreign copies.
which are printed in German language about Germany.
So this you will find if you are interested in Leipzig.
So you see, we tried to have a, like in a good, if you are married, you should not have the behavior like twins to do everything twice.
For 40 years, I say it correctly, we had the behavior like twins because the Communist Party
They collect everything.
They made the National Bibliography.
We collect everything and made the National Bibliography.
And it was nearly a total duplication.
A duplication?
Duplication.
Was it?
Was it.
But was it or was it not?
It was.
Up to the reunion for political reasons.
Leipzig said, we are the old National Library.
And we said, we are the only free National Library.
And so we had two National Bibliographies.
Our was called Deutsche Bibliography.
Leipzig was called deutsche national bibliography, but as for the content, and even for the Catholic rules, they were nearly the same.
And therefore it was rather not too difficult to bring those two libraries together, because they were not like enemies, but we tried, if a German publisher and Western, please send an additional copy to Leipzig,
This is in the years before it?
It is, in the Cold War there was a good relationship.
So there was a scholarly understanding?
Yes, there was a scholarly professional understanding.
Even in the Cold War this tie was still existing, perhaps one of the last ties.
So if we wish to change cataloging rules according to the international rules,
We were hanging together with Leipzig in Austria and so we tried within the German speaking countries to get the same rules and so on.
Quite a lot of our staff here were trained in Leipzig and escaped during the Cold War and we hired them.
Not bad.
So there isn't much resistance in Leipzig that there is control from here.
No.
I think Klaus Dieter Lehmann is very clever.
Not to say, I'm the boss.
So he really tried to listen to them.
Of course, they have some problems.
They expect it.
After the reunion, oh, now we'll get lots of money.
because they're rich.
And now, if Klaus-Dieter Lehmann sagt, sorry, we don't hire additional staff, they're a little disappointed.
Thank you.
I have, for you, sorry, just three things.
One is,
The last annual report.
In this annual report, you get all figures on Deutsche Boutique and so on.
If you like it, and you see how many readers in the book, how many students it is, and then some additional addresses and so on.
So it is last annual report.
Excellent.
I can have this?
You can have it, yes.
The second one is quite new.
Just a fortnight ago, this is published quarterly, you see Mr. Lehmann and the Chancellor Kohl on our exhibition, and here there are some additional articles on the Deutsche Boutique, what we are doing in the computer division and in the other divisions.
If you like it.
Yes, yes.
Anything, everything.
And the last thing when you are free, this is the official documentation of our .
Here we have the information speech from Mr. Lehmann, the official speech.
View to the future, some things which you talked about this morning, you will find here again.
And some pictures on the Deutsche Bibliothek.
So you see, I have some impression of the building.
and some figures on the building, how large it is, and so on, may be that you are not obliged to... At some point when my new book is being published, will I be able to get photographs?
Yes.
I brought a camera, but I think you have to get the official one.
You are free to put back here as far as you wish.
No problems at all.
No secrets.
And here are some additional questions which are clear.
This is in German and English.
One part is Frankfurt.
This is Leipzig, just a folder.
And one on Berlin.
And this is together things which belong to everything.
This is excellent.
So, you see, the old part was, this was Leipzig, and this is still Leipzig.
That's where I'm going tomorrow?
Yeah, we're going tomorrow.
And that's what it looks like today.
It is an art deco style, 1913.
It is marvelous.
This is Berlin.
In Berlin, they just collect Coscores and music records.
So Frankfurt is just collecting printed material, but not music.
Music, and what else did you say?
Just music.
Music records.
Oh, recordings.
And recordings.
Tapes.
And tapes, and music cassettes, and scores.
I see.
Audio.
So everything which is referring to music is done in Berlin, and printed material is done here.
And Leipzig is like a twin sister.
Oh, we want one.
Here you will be tomorrow.
Berlin, I think you have, it is just a small division.
Maybe you can get it.
How does this word translate?
It is German or a word bibliothèque.
Bibliothèque is called .
I'm not going to build it that way.
How does that translate?
What does that mean?
It is translate our bibliothèque.
Oh, it's the same word.
It is the same word, but it was founded in 1913.
Okay.
They say, why do we need foreign words?
There are so much nice words, German.
So, in fact, it is a same word.
But this is an international word, and this is an old-fashioned German.
Normally, now the bucherei is just used for very small local libraries.
Sometimes they call it bucherei, but even they prefer the international word.
This is a very old-fashioned word.
But when they started with this word, and now...
Yes.
there was some concern that we don't need any more symbols.
You will see it in the second book there, you see there are only five architects trying to build symbols.
The rest tries to be small and beautiful and even the city of Frankfurt said you are not allowed
to build a skyscraper.
And therefore... But you have skyscrapers over there.
We have skyscrapers.
It's not like in Washington, where you can't build a skyscraper.
Nothing can be called.
Yeah.
These are all banks.
So bankers get the permission.
But they said, no skyscrapers in this region here.
And therefore, in the competition, it was clearly stated, no skyscrapers, and therefore the
were obliged to bring the mess of books in stacks under the earth, and so you could not have like the Bibliothèque Nationale, four huge towers.
It was strictly forbidden by the city of Africa.
We don't like skyscrapers in this region, we do have enough in this region, and therefore now we change it.
But that was kind of a subtle way of saying also that we really don't want a huge
statement in terms of architecture.
Yes, so it comes together actually.
Now in this year we changed in the city of Frankfurt because you get the European bank, the central bank, and they get the permission to get a new skyscraper.
So in exceptional cases, the analogy is off.